[Music]
[Applause]
welcome welcome welcome to Last Week
Tonight I'm John Oliver thank you so
much for joining us we are back and
there is there is simply no time to
recap everything that has happened since
we've been away but in short we nearly
went to war with Iran uh the UK's
election made Bojo prime minister and
the Corona virus has started spreading
around the world and if you happen to
feel like you're getting sick right now
you do have it and you only have hours
to live also Harry and Megan left the
royal family baby Yoda showed the world
what it was like when Yoda was a baby
bong Jun ho won all the Oscars Bernie
Sanders won New Hampshire and this
poodle named CBA won Best in Show at the
Westminster dog show making her I
believe 100% that but but
obviously obviously we have to get to
the biggest story of the break what
happens when an obvious criminal
sociopath is accused of abusing his
power yet somehow holds on to his office
by sailing through a sham investigation
gritty the Philadelphia Flyers mascot is
now clear to wrong do it a man claimed
that gritty punched his 13-year-old son
in the back during a holiday photo shoot
November after an investigation
Philadelphia police cleared gritty I'm
sure that gritty just kind of rolled his
eyes cuz that's what they they're
googly well hold on there hold on for a
start I I'm not sure that Googly is the
best way to describe gritt's eyes at all
deeply psychotic sure two swirling
vortexes of horniness and rage better a
pair of haunted nipples floating on a
plate of milk and surrounded by a nest
of orangutang pubes now we're getting
somewhere now we're describing this
Monster's eyes but but clearly gritty is
not the only aggro neon weirdo
celebrating his acquittal these days the
president beat his impeachment charges
although although certain Republicans
who voted to acquit him claim that the
whole experience May well have changed
him I believe that the president has
learned from the this case the president
has been impeached that's a pretty big
lesson I believe that he will be much
more cautious in the future what are you
talking about
Susan of course he hasn't learned his
lesson Trump never learns his lesson
this is the man whose firstborn child
was Donald Trump Jr and he kept having
children there's no lesson learning
capacity in the man and if you need
further proof of that just look what
happened this this week with Trump
associate Roger Stone convicted last
year on seven counts of lying to
Congress witness tampering and
obstructing a proceeding on Monday
prosecutors recommended a sentence of 7
to n years in prison and that is when
things got weird tonight at least four
prosecutors stepping down from the Roger
Stone case after a dramatic decision to
overrule their recommendation that he
spend 7 to n years in prison the
stunning rebuke from the justice
department leadership came just hours
after president Trump tweeted that the
prosecutor suggested sentence for stone
was quote horrible and very unfair a
miscarriage of Justice yeah but was it a
miscarriage of Justice though cuz bear
in mind Stone was found guilty on all
counts the recommendation was within
established federal guidelines and also
just look at
him I I know you shouldn't profile
People based on how they look but on the
other hand look at him look at him his
dress is business scoundrel he he looks
like the mannequin at a department store
for Dick Tracy villains he looks like a
guy whose day planner just says frame
Roger Rabbit look at him and even if you
think the recommended sentence was in
fact too long it's up to the judge
whether to impose it and there's an
appeal system after that but to have doj
leadership interfering in a case
involving a trump Ally hours after the
president directly commented on it is
appalling this is America your
experience with the criminal justice
system should not depend on how much the
president likes you it should depend on
how much money you have what color your
skin is and whether or not the judge has
already had lunch that is how we do
things here in the United States
buddy and and the
excuses offered by the president's
Defenders rign from the Absurd to the
genuinely terrifying the executive power
is vested in the president the top law
enforcement officer is the attorney
general if he wants to counteract
decisions of the line prosecutor that's
his dang job I there's nothing wrong
with this I like the fact that a
president of the United States when he
sees unjustice he's pointing it out
that's exactly what you want to have a a
president do I don't want to hear any
crap about an independent justice
department this justice department as
does everyone works for the president it
is part of the executive branch oh he's
right of course everyone at the justice
department works for the president when
he says jump they should say how high
when he says lock her up they should say
how long when he says get me Flubber
they should say from the movie when he
says yes they should say okay when he
says where's that Flubber I asked for
they should say we're working on it when
he says I need it now they should say
okay here it is when he says is this
lettuce they should say no that's
Flubber when he says it's not dancing
they should say it's probably just tired
when he says go away so my Flubber can
sleep they should say say it would be an
honor and then everyone in the Justice
Department should line up and kiss the
president's flab a good night because
damn it they're part of the executive
branch they work for
him this whole situation looked so bad
that bar gave an interview in which he
claimed he never discussed Stone
sentence with Trump but added that it
was time for the president to stop
tweeting about Department of Justice
criminal cases you know good luck with
that and what while this was widely
portrayed by the media as a rift between
Trump and his AG I have a sickening
feeling that Laura Ingram was one of the
few people actually seeing things
clearly all right John the media sees
the sexy story of Trump versus bar but
they missed the fact that bar was
basically telling uh Trump don't worry I
got this to borrow a phrase used almost
exclusively by white supremacists Laura
Ingram is Right bars Bar's comments
weren't so much don't interfere with the
justice department as they were don't
publicly interfere with the justice
department because I'm already doing
what you want in fact on Friday news
broke that bar was reviewing the doj's
prosecution of another Trump Ally
Michael Flynn all of which suggests that
Susan Collins may actually have been
right about one thing Trump did learn a
lesson from his impeachment trial
specifically I can get away with
anything because no one will hold me
accountable and unlike the child who was
definitely punched in the back by a
googly eyed fur demon we cannot say that
we didn't see this coming and now this
and now another installment of coming up
on the doctors the seniors that are
taking 50 Shades of Gray to a whole new
level plus you called 911 for that I
want my weed back then is it possible to
overdose on gummy vitamins then burglar
didn't demand cash just wanted to suck
his toes plus it's time to spin the
wheel of Fe and spin the wheel of poop
then the wheel
of and Dr ABS is on duty and he's got
the secret to banishing your back pain
for good then I've been suffering from
severe butt cheek cramps plus want to
make some quick cash maybe you should
sell your poop this could be a career
then this is crazy why people are
putting anti-anxiety pills down there
and why women are putting their vacuum
down where OMG plus it's time for
another installment of don't put that
down there that's
today moving on for our main story
tonight we thought we'd talk about an
issue that has dominated the Democratic
primary and I'm not talking about why
Tom Styer doesn't look richer but why
doesn't he though his Skin's sow his
clothes don't fit right and he seems to
only have one tie what is this man doing
with all his money no we're not
talking about that instead we're going
to talk about this it's the hot Buzz
phrase for Democrats running for
president president Medicare for all we
will have Medicare for all we have a
chance for Medicare for all Medicare for
all Medicare for all now there's a lot
of talk about Medicare for all what does
that
mean great question from a great judge
and an even greater human being and to
answer the question from Ruth Bader
ginsburg's inevitable successor what is
Medicare for all well right now we have
what's called a multi-payer system what
that means is Maybe your Healthcare is
covered by private insurance purchased
by you or your employer or maybe it's
covered by a government program like
Medicare or Medicaid or maybe you're one
of the 27 million Americans with no
insurance in which case you're
the basic idea behind Medicare for all
is that all of this will be replaced by
a government funded Single Payer program
and the goal of universal healthc care
coverage is extremely appealing both
Bernie Saunders and Elizabeth Warren
have put out versions of Medicare for
all but other Democrats have been much
warier of it and conservatives
absolutely hate the idea we cannot
afford Medicare for all this is the end
of America as we know it economically I
think literally 90% of hospitals would
go under tomorrow Medicare for all I
lived in England sha nationalized
Healthcare is a disaster when Rich
famous people get sick they don't fly to
Canada they don't fly to Cuba they come
here because we have the best medicine
in the world look look I I we'll give
that man this America does have one of
the best Health Care Systems in the
world for Rich famous people
unfortunately too many people are born
in this country with a terrible
pre-existing condition called not being
Beyonce some of us many of us in fact
are Salange and and for so many
Americans our system is badly broken and
I'm not just talking about the 27
million without health insurance but the
nearly 44 million more who are
underinsured people with high
deductibles and co-pays that can end up
bleeding them dry the majority of people
who file for bankruptcy site medical
expenses as a factor and you probably
already knew that deep down from just
how often you see GoFundMe campaigns
online from worried parents of sick
children or your friend who got a
pineapple stuck up his ass and needs
help paying the doctors to stop laughing
and get it
out and incidentally for all the
heartwarming success stories that you
see a study found 90% of crowdfunding
campaigns for medical EXP expenses fail
to meet their goal and when they fall
short it can be crushing what just one
family struggles to raise $10,000 for
expenses arising from their 2-year-old
daughter's eye disorder Sheila's
fundraiser isn't going as well as they'd
hoped about a month in it's only raised
$610 early morning on the day of
shayla's surgery her parents are still
trying to get the word out okay so we're
going to make her sign
# eyes for Shayla very
good think about what you're looking out
there it's a pretty dystopian society
that we're living in if your physical
and financial well-being depend on
whether your crowdfunding campaign can
get a signal boost from GIF pom the
Pomeranian and good luck with that by
the way I've been trying to get him to
post our gerrymandering piece for months
now and he won't do it come on JF pom
throw us a bone you
the point is any solution that
might put a end to that is worth at
least considering surely and to be
honest I personally think there is a lot
to be said for Medicare for all so
tonight let's take a look at it not the
politics of whether it can pass but what
it actually is and whenever the subject
comes up you tend to hear three major
criticisms of it concerning cost wait
times and choice and let's start with
cost because critics will tell you that
Medicare for all will simply increase
the federal budget too much this sickos
socialism would cost roughly
32.6 trillion dollar over 10 years even
if you doubled tax collections from
individuals and corporations yes that
means you'd be paying twice what you
already do in taxes that still doesn't
cover the tab my God free healthcare is
expensive look I I I know that sounds
dramatic but Sarah Palin's fourth
attempt at cloning herself actually has
a point there Medicare for all would
undeniably be expensive but that fact
needs a lot of context around it for
starters well it would increase the
federal budget yes but it would also
eliminate employer spending on premiums
and your spending on outer pocket costs
now would those Balance each other out
that is a good question the answer is no
one can possibly know for sure there are
just too many variables involved the
times asked five prominent experts to
estimate National healthc care spending
under Bernie's plan and they compared
that to what we spend now the results
range from it would actually cost us
less to it would cost about the same to
it would cost a of a lot more and I
know that extra shading does not look
like very much but believe me it's a
of a
lot but but look let's say just for
argument sake our overall spending did
go up we would be getting a lot for that
money remember 27 million more people
would be covered and they'd be covered
well Bernie's plan is incredibly
generous it covers Vision Dental
long-term care and Drugs in fact
Medicare for all is a misleading title
because Medicare requires some co-pays
and outof pocket expenses and Bernie
will excitedly tell you his plan
eliminates those under the Medicare for
all bill that I wrote premiums are gone
co- payments are gone deductibles are
gone all out of pocket expenses are gone
he's right hospital bills are gone
co-payments are gone cell phone payments
gone flat tires Gone Goo commercials
gone all the things you hate in this
world will be gone and all that will
remain is universally accessible health
care and Laura dur finally life as it
should be Bernie's plan isn't just more
generous than most current private
insurance plans it's more generous than
the policy of any Single Payer country
on Earth and there is a good case to be
made that even if National spending
wound up higher we might wind up wasting
less right now a lot of our health care
spending doesn't go to Health Care it
goes to administrative costs that come
with having a vast insurance industry
that is clearly wildly inefficient and
consolidating all health insurance Under
One Roof would give the government far
more leverage to negotiate prices down
because look it is no secret prices for
procedures and drugs are out of control
in the United States it is so bad one
insurance provider in Utah recently
started offering some of its
participants cash if they were willing
to travel a little further than their
local pharmacy to fill out their
prescription it's called pharmaceutical
tourism here's how it works PHP puts
patients on a plane and flies into San
Diego from there a private car takes
them across the border to Tijana Mexico
where their prescription is waiting for
them the only difference the
prescription costs roughly half the
price PHP will give people willing to
travel an additional $500 back it's
cheaper for us to pay for the drug down
there send them down there and then give
them
$500 that's
crazy giving you $500 to go to Mexico to
buy drugs is not what your insurance
provider should be doing it's what your
sketchy friend Meredith should be doing
cuz she wants to make Brianna's
bachelorette party a total
rager I go myself but I have outstanding
warrants
under Medicare for all the government
would be a much stronger negotiator now
you wouldn't want it to set price is so
low that it stifles Innovation or
bankrupts doctors but that is a balance
that you would need to strike overall
you can't definitely say that it would
be more expensive but even if it was I
personally would argue that it's worth
it and either way cost is a lot more
complicated an issue than just going on
TV and saying 32.6 trillion dollars like
Tina Fay doing her best doctor evil
impression anyway the next major
criticism of Medicare for all concerns
wait times specifically that it would
result in rationing and delays to care
if you think it's fun to wait in line at
DMV you're going to love Bernie Sanders
wait times for Medicare for all it leads
to the kind of care that people now have
in England or Canada where you have to
wait in line just take a look at Canada
or the UK it means long waiting lines it
means people not getting the health
treatments they need okay okay I I get
that no one likes waiting in line for
anything I get it most people see the
line at Trader Joe's and either abandon
their cart or pull a fire alarm and
sneak out with their groceries
undetected I'm not I'm not saying I've
ever done that I'm just saying I had a
show to do tonight and who wants some
peanut butter
pretzels but but look as with cost
comparisons of weight times are very
complicated for one thing the
international weight times that hear
about most often are for non-emergency
surgeries such as knee Replacements and
while yes people in other countries do
sometimes have to wait slightly longer
for some care it's not like Americans
aren't having to do that right now
anyway Americans are just sometimes
forced to wait due to the expense about
half of us adults say they or a family
member put off or skipped care in the
past year because of the cost and about
one in8 say their medical condition got
worse because of that delay as for the
uninsured they can W wind up having to
wait on a literal line seeking care with
age groups like remote Area Medical an
organization that travels the country
setting up mobile clinics to treat
people for free and which draws massive
lines wherever it goes having got their
place in line many camped out for the
Night Before Dawn this was the moment
they were waiting for number one come on
down number two who right here number
three one by one patients are let in for
their chance of a visit to a doctor a
dentist and an optician at first Ram
focused on communities in remote areas
of developing countries but Stan says he
gradually came to realize the depth of
need in the US today oh 80% or more of
what we do is here in the United States
it's unbelievable to me that that is the
case normally Americans hate it when a
British person comes over to diagnose
what's wrong with you believe me six
seasons of YouTube comments have made
that very clear the internet is
mean and for all critics talk of weight
times abroad it is worth knowing less
than 10% of Britain's or Canadians say
that their health system needs to be
rebuilt completely compared to 23% of
people here in the United States in fact
when London hosted the 2012 Olympics the
opening ceremony featured a 4 and A2
minute celebration of the National
Health Service featuring swing dancing
doctors and nurses and children jumping
up and down on hospital beds as for
Canada they adore their Health Service
so much that when they had a contest for
the greatest Canadian of all time this
was the result the greatest Canadian as
decided by you
is
Tommy the mother of all national titles
goes to the the father of
Medicare yeah
Tommy I mean I mean his master's thesis
the problems of the subnormal family
endorsed Eugenics but we're going to
ignore that cuz it was the 1930s and
that was perfect give it up for Tommy
W look then there is the final big
criticism of Medicare for all which
involves Choice specifically that it
would take away our ability to choose
the sort of health coverage that we
receive when I hear that healthc care is
a right what I hear is Healthcare will
no longer have choices under U Medicare
for all your choice of health coverage
disappears Americans are still Americans
we're not socialists we're not
Communists we like choice and we like to
have um choice in health care especially
right right Americans are Americans it's
true and they do like having choices
it's why the number one rated series on
Netflix is 40 minutes of looking through
the menu for something good it's
basically America's new National
Pastime and the fact you're applauding
that is a full cosign on that
concept but the fact is the fact is our
current system limits Americans choices
far more than it expands them for
starter as a practical matter most of us
don't choose our health insurance we get
what we get through our employer and
because of that choices like changing
jobs can be become significantly harder
and not just that often times your
choice of doctors and hospitals is
severely limited by which ones your
insurance will cover going out of your
insurance Network can be prohibitively
expensive that is why people bend over
backwards to stay in network and even
when they do that it can still all go
horribly wrong while campaigning in 2018
democratic congresswoman Katie Porter's
appendix burst her first thought how
much would it cost cost I didn't call an
ambulance cuz I I knew it could cost a
lot if you call an ambulance and I had
specifically had my manager drive me not
to the closest hospital but to the in
network Hospital even though the
hospital was in her network the surgeon
who helped save Porter's life was not
and she got a bill for nearly
$3,000 exactly you can get by
taking an ambulance you can get
by going to the wrong hospital or you
can get by going to the right
hospital but getting the wrong surgeon
the American Healthcare System gives you
so many choices as to how you want to
get it truly is the karma suure
of
healthare and and under Medicare for all
that scenario would not happen no doctor
would be out of network because there
wouldn't be a network at all and the
truth about American's current illusion
of choice is that too often because of
cost the choices our current system
forces people to make are ones like this
I I prioritize the heart stuff over the
insulin because the heart stuff is more
immediate I know over time you know
diabetes will kill me but it'll take a
longer
time and I know that without the heart
failure drugs I only have 133% function
of my heart I don't want to play with
that that's obviously terrible a Humane
Health Care System should not require
people to pick their FA favorite organ
although for the record if you're ever
asking me my favorite organ I'm going
spleen every time now I know the brain
and the Heart get all the attention but
I'm telling you when it comes to
filtering blood you can't go wrong with
the spleen # I'm a spleen Stang # yes
spleen
so so those are those are the three main
criticisms of Medicare for all and I
should say it is not just people on the
right who raise them some Democrats have
reservations too Pete bu jge for
instance prefers a different concept to
Medicare for all but with a catually
similar name My Healthcare vision is
Medicare for all who want it let every
American have the choice to walk away
from the corporate private plans and
toward something better but when they're
ready because I trust Americans to make
that right choice okay well hold on
there you trust Americans to make the
right choice you know Americans choose
to drink BD light right which doesn't
taste like beer so so much ases it taste
like if beer somehow died and was
discovered in its apartment 3 weeks
later but but what Buddha jedge is
referring to when he says Medicare for
all who want it is basically the public
option that is where the government
doesn't replace the private insurance
system it just introduces its own plan
that would compete with it and it it
would definitely be an improvement over
what we have now the problem is it would
leave so much of our current Insurance
infrastructure with all of its problems
intact so that's kind of like being
offered either a sandwich or a
slightly smaller sandwich with guac
I mean I guess I'll take the second one
if you're asking but honestly the lack
of guac wasn't really my main
concern and I'm not saying any of this
would be easy a lot would have to be
figured out from how to impose the taxes
to pay for it uh in an equitable way uh
to the consequences of eliminating the
entire Private health insurance industry
which by one estimate could displace 1.8
million workers that is a legitimate
thing to be concerned about and any plan
would have to be designed and rolled out
very very carefully that is why both
Warren and Saunders talk about the need
for transition plans for workers in
their proposals and I get that big
change is scary it is human nature to
prefer the devil you know over an
uncertain alternative but the devil you
know is still a devil and and it is easy
to forget that I on Britain a lot
on this show and I'm not going to stop
anytime soon but one thing Britain does
well is the National Health Service it's
not perfect of course I'm not going to
swing dance on a bed about it
but I will be honest with you I've never
had a bad experience and I don't know
anyone who has but since moving to
America I don't think I have met anyone
who doesn't have at least one insurance
industry Horror Story at this point the
US national anthem should just be
everyone in the stadium yelling about
their insurance company for two and a
half minutes so for what it is worth
personally I am in favor of some version
of carefully designed universal health
coverage and and I will own all the
things about it that are difficult
including the fact that politically it
would be incredibly hard to get past but
in return anyone who is resistant to
significant change is going to have to
own all the flaws of our current system
one in which when Americans get sick
they can find themselves comparison
shopping with a burst appendix flipping
a coin between life-saving medication
and praying they can come up with a
catchy enough hashtag to cover their
care although for what it's worth on
that one until we fix this mess
if anyone gets a ruptured spleen please
feel free to use
#y spleen that's all yours good luck
with it and now this and now it's
someone's job to send video clips of the
Westminster dog show to local stations
and this year that's someone f up
there is a new top dog at the
Westminster Kennel Club siba took home
the top prize at the event last night
the standard po named CA won Best in
Show last night SAA won Best in Show
last night at the Westminster Kennel
Club dog show there is a new best in
show there's a new top dog at
Westminster a poodle named the top dog
at the Westminister Kennel Club dog show
she was chosen from Seven finalists that
included a whip it she was chosen from
Seven finalist sh oh little little rear
shot there well meet SAA standard po to
turn around please dog experts say don't
be fool she's more than just good looks
why are we showing that shot again
Reggie that might have been why she won
I mean who
knows that's our show thanks so much for
watching see you next week good night